.TH HIME 1 "2 FEB 2008" "HIME 0.8" "hime input method platform"
.SH NAME
hime \- an input method server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hime
.B [\fB-h\fP|\fB-v\fP|\fB--version\fP]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hime
is an input method(IM) server, which focused mainly on Traditional Chinese. It is also very useful for Simplified Chinese, Japanese, and many other languages. IM table format of hime is almost as same as those of scim and xcin. Users may append their IMs to hime very easily.

If you are looking for configuration tool of hime, please see the manpage of \fBhime-setup\fP.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-v, \-\-version
Show version of hime.
.SH FILES
.IP /usr/share/hime/table/gtab.list
Input methods available for hime. You may copy it to $HOME/.config/hime/ and edit it as you like. If you have no $HOME/.config/hime/gtab.list, /usr/share/hime/table/gtab.list will be used.
.IP /usr/share/hime/script/utf8-edit
A file helps hime finding text editors when needed. You may add any UTF-8 compatible text editor to it.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.IP LC_CTYPE
For bash: export LC_CTYPE=zh_TW.UTF-8
.br
For csh: setenv LC_CTYPE zh_TW.UTF-8
.IP XMODIFIERS
For bash: export XMODIFIERS=@im=hime
.br
For csh: setenv XMODIFIERS @im=hime
.IP GTK_IM_MODULE
For bash: export GTK_IM_MODULE=hime
.br
For csh: setenv GTK_IM_MODULE hime
.IP QT_IM_MODULE
For bash: export QT_IM_MODULE=hime
.br
For csh: setenv QT_IM_MODULE hime
.IP HIME_CONNECT_MSG_ON
Display messages for socket connections.
.IP HIME_DBG_TMP
Display additional debug messages.
.IP HIME_ERR_COREDUMP
Option for debugging.
.IP HIME_IM_CLIENT_NO_AUTO_EXEC
Disable auto-evoke in hime protocol.
.IP HIME_OUTPUT_FILTER
Assign output filter to process data before the IM server send them to clients.
.IP HIME_TABLE_DIR
Assign directory for IM tables other then /usr/share/hime/table.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hime-setup (1),
.BR cin2gtab (1),
.BR hime-phoa2d (1),
.BR hime-juyin-learn (1),
.BR hime-message (1)
.SH AUTHORS
.IP "Edward Der-Hua Liu"
Wrote hime and associated tools.
.IP "Friend of Chanjei IM, Malaysia <www.chinesecj.com>"
Author of original Chanjei IM version 5 table.
.IP "Dayi Co., Ltd. <http://www.dayi.com>"
Author of Dayi IM.
